Les actes de dialogue utilisés pour l'annotation sont les suivants:

I inform
A agree
D disagree
E exclamation
G greetings
B backchannel
BB onomatopée
THX thanks

R requete: demande qqchose avec une declarative
QO question open
RO reponse open

QY question yes/no
Y reponse yes
N reponse no

QX question pas compris: "qu'est-ce que tu as dit ?"
RC reponse-clarification = repeter

RZ reponse qui ne repond pas a la question: "tu m'énerves à demander ça"

O ordre (= performative other plus directive que suggest - difficile a distinguer, devrait etre mergees)
S suggest (= performative other po)
PS performative-self: je m'engage a faire ca
RP repete pour inciter à continuer la conversation: "alors tu dis ca..."

---

Après annotation, les actes sont regroupés de la manière suivante:

Apres regroupement:
12 DAs:

I
A
D
B BB E RP
G THX
R
QO QX
RO RC RZ
QY
Y
N
S O PS

---

Observations pendant l'annotation:

- on a des dialogues tes differents selon les fichiers, avec des distributions de DAs différentes
- les biais/spécificités des corpus de DA rendent les modèles peu transférables entre corpus: ex: SWDA a de la ponctuation;

One of the dialog involves a child who is drawing, while an adult talk with her and observe her.
This leads to very specific turns sequences, because the child is sometimes concentrated on her task and may not
pay attention to what the adult is saying. This leads to disruptions in the semantic coherence of the sequence of turns.
Furthermore, the child sometimes rejects the questions that the adult is asking her, because they distract her; then she
says for instance "oh, please stop asking so many questions, you're boring".
Another effect is that the adult often repeats the last words of the child, because she feels that the child is slowly
forgetting what she was saying, so the adult is then remmebering her her last words to invite her to finish her thought.

In another dialog, two teenagers are talking about their friends and about their courses; but at the same time, one of
the teenager is also sending SMS to another friend. This situation also leads to very specific types of dialogue acts
sequence. For instance, at some point, one teenager is dictating to her friend what she should type on a phone. This leads
to several performative acts in a row, but also frequent interruptions because the words to write are quite long and difficult,
which leads to repeted sequences with several requests for confirmation and/or corrections.
At another times, the semantic coherence of the dialogue is also broken, because some message appears on the phone: this leads
to forgetting about the current topic and to an instantaneous switch to another topic. The phone actually acts like another
people involved in the dialogue, but who does not hear what the teenagers are saying.
In a way, it's just like two independent conversations are taking place simultaneously, which partly involve the same speakers,
who are thus switching from one conversation to the other.

Furthermore, all of these dialogues have been recorded after initial greetings between speakers, so there are neither
initial greetings nor final good byes.


